# Chapter 2
<u>Def</u>
1) An <u>experiment</u> is a procedure that produces distinct possibilities called <u>outcomes</u>.
2) The <u>sample space</u> is the set of all outcomes.
3) An <u>event</u> is a subset of the sample space.
Practically, it is a statement about the outcome.
<u>e.g.</u> Experiment rolling a die.
Sample space $S = {1,2,3,4,5,6}$
Event $A = {1,3,5}$ "The outcome is an odd number"

For two events *E* and *F*, we have 
$$E\cup F: \text{Everything inside E and F}$$
$$E\cap F: \text{Everything inside both E and F}$$
$$E^C: \text{Everything outside of E}$$

-<u>De Morgan's Law</u>
$$(E\cup F)^C = E^C\cap F^C$$
$$(E\cap F)^C = E^C\cup F^C$$

In general, $$\large(\cup_{i=1}^nE_i)^C=\cap_{i=1}^nE_i^C$$
$$$\large(\cap_{i=1}^nE_i)^C=\cup_{i=1}^nE_i^C$$

<u>Def</u> S: sample space
A <u>probability</u> is a function P:{events} -> \[0,1\] satisfying
(i) P(S) = 1
(ii) if E<sub>1</sub>, E<sub>2</sub>,... are such that $E_{in}E_j =\emptyset$ for i != j, then
$$P(\cup _i \neq$$

<u>e.g.</u> (1) Rolling a die S = {1,2,3,4,5,6}
We have the usual probability P.
P({3}) = 1/6
{3} -> 1/6
P({1,3,5}) = 3/6
{1,3,5} -> 1/2

(2) Choosing a letter from TENNESSEE
S = {T,E,N,S}
P({E}) = 4/9
P({T,N}) = (1+2)/9 = 1/3

# Properties of a probability
<u>Prop</u>
1) $P(A^C)=1-P(A)$
2) $P(A\cup B) = P(A)+P(B)-P(A\cap B)$
3) $If A \subset B \text{ then } P(A)<= P(B)$

<u>Prop</u> (Inclusion - Exclusion Formula)
$$\large P(\cup ^n _{i=1} A_i) = \sum ^n _{i=1} P(A_i)-\sum _{i<j}P(A_i\cap A_j)+\sum _{i<j<k} P(A_i\cap A_j\cap A_k)-...(-1)^{n+1}$$
$\large P(A_i\cap ...\cap A_n)$

<u>e.g.</u>
60% Instagram
40% Facebook
30% Twitter
20% Instagram & Facebook
15% Facebook & Twitter
10% Instagram & Twitter
5% Instagram & Facebook & Twitter
What is the percentage of students who have at least one account?
\<sol\> $P(I\cup F\cup T)$
Apply the exclusion / inclusion formula.
$P(I\cup F\cup T)=$
$P(I)+P(F)+P(T) - P(I\cap F)-P(I\cap T)-P(F\cap T)+P(I\cap T\cap F)=$
$60+40+30-20-15-10+5 = 90%$

2) Draw 7 cards out of a deck of 52. What is the probability that you have a three of a kind?
\<sol\>
$A_i:\text{three cards of denomonation i}$
1 <= i <= 13
1,2,...,10,J,Q,K
$\large P(\cup _{i=1}^{13} A_i)=\sum^{13}_{i=1}P(A_i)-\sum_{i<j}P(A_i\cap A_j)+\sum P(A_i\cap A_j\cap A_k):third term goes to 0$

