RISC-V instruction words
RISC-V base ISA are encoded as 32-bit instruction words
Both instructions and data are stored in memory
Program Counter (PC) points to the current instruction
- incremented by 4 in normal flow for sequential execution

C extension allows compressed instructions of 16 bits, but it is not a stand-alone ISA.
Machine language uses binary rep. of instruc.
Instruc. in machine language are called machine code.

A word is an instruction - instructions can be stored in memory, just like data. 


The layout of bits in instruction words is instruction format
- How do we use 32-bit bits to specify operation code (opcode), registers, immediate, offset, etc? How many bits for each?
RISC-V has six instruction formats (while MIPS has 3)
- R, I, S, SB, U, and UJ

Instructions we have learned so far:
- Using registers only
- Having an immediate as the second operand
- Load and store
- LUI
- Branch (to be discussed)

Binary compatibility allows compiled programs to work on different computers

imm is the 32-bit immediate processor uses for computation. it is not the immediate written in instruction

Confusing Table shows how the bits are used for different purposes


RISC-V R-type Instructions
For instructions that have 3 registers as operands
Fields in R-type
- opcode:	7-bit operationcode (7 bits)
- rd:	destination register number (5 bits)
- rs1:	first source register number (5 bits)
- rs2:	second source register number (5 bits)
- funct3:	additional function code (3 bits)
- funct7: even more function code (7 bits)


R-format Example: ADD

add x1, x2, 3

funct7:	0000000
rs2:	00011	# 3
rs1:	00010	# x2
funct3:	000
rd:		00001	# x1
opcode:	0110011	# ADD

The rightmost two bits in opcode are always 11 for 32-bit instructions

What if we change add to sub? only one bit changes
funct7 = 0100000


For immediate, use bits of funct7 and rs2 to represent immediate, so we only have 12 bits.


RISC-V I-type Instructions
Fields in I-type
- opcode:	operations code	(7 bits)
- rd:		destination register number (5 bits)
- rs1:		first source number	(5 bits)
- funct3:	additional function code (3 bits)
- imm\[11:0\]:		lower 12 bits of the immediate, in the place of funct7 and rs2 (12 bits)
	- \[11:0\] because the processor constructs a 32 bit immediate but we can only use the lower 12 bits.


I-type Example: addi

addi	x1, x2, 32

opcode:	0010011
rd:		00001
rs1:	00010
funct3:	000
imm:	0000 0010 0000


srai vs srli

only rs2 is used because we can only shift up to 5 w/ 32 bits
10th value in imm (6th bit in funct7) is different: for srli it's 0, for srai it's 1


# Load instructions
I-format - rd, rs1, offset = imm
We don't have 3 registers, we have offset

# Store instructions
sw	rs2, offset(rs1)
no dest. reg
keep rs1, keep rd open, keep rs2 in rs2
- use funct7 + rd to represent 12 bits of offset


# RISC-V S-type Instructions
Fields in S-type
- opcode:
- rs1
- rs2
- imm\[11:5\] and imm\[4:0\]
	- lower 12 bits of the offset/immediate are stored in two fields
	- The higher bits are 7 bits, bits 11 to 5, are in funct7
	- The lower 5 bits, bits 4 to 0, are in rd


# Encoding of LUI: U-type Instructions

Fields in U-type
-opcode:
rd:
imm\[32-12\]: the higher 20 bits of the 32-bit immediate the processor gets

Opcode:
- LUE: 0b 011 0111


# The immediate
the immediate, written in assembly language
lui	x1, 0xABCDE
The immediate field in the machine code


# Exercise

slli	t0, t0, 8

opcode:	0010011
rd:		00101
rs1:	00101
funct3:	001
imm:	0000 0000 1000