## PS 6
- look at manpage for ntohl and htonl (network to host, host to network)
- LS command
	- tells the server to send a list of files in the current working dir.
	- protocol:
		- client sends a Command to the server. the code field should be set to CC_LS, arg field should be an array filled with all zeros.
		- server prepares a Payload and sends it to client.
		- server prepares the list of files and sends it to client. this is just text - the code field of the Payload is set to PL_TXT, length field is set to num of chars in the text.
		- client prints list of files.
- GET command
	- client requests a file from the server
	- protocol:
		- obtain the name of the file to retrieve over the connection from the end-sure (scanf does it and the code is there)
		- client prepares command, sends to server. code field should be sent to CC_GET, arg field should be name of file, including null terminator
		- server preps payload, sends to client. code field should be set to (network byte ordered) PL_FILE, length should be size of file in bytes (in network byte order).
		- server calls sendFileOverSocket func to send the file contents to the client
		- client receives file, saves it to disk, appending ".download" to the name of the file.
	- void receiveFileOverSocket(int sid,char* fname,char* ext,int fSize);
		- pass fd for the socket, name of file, extension, size of file in bytes. function should allocate enough mem to hold file, use recv to read file contents from socket, write file to disk. 
- PUT command
	- sends a file to the server
		- client constructs command, sends to server. code is set to the (network byte ordered) CC_PUT, while the name of the field is placed in the arg field.
		- client computes the size of the file using getFileSize. prepares the payload, where code is (network byte ordered) PL_FILE, length field is size of file. client sends payload to the server.
		- client calls sendFileOverSocket.
	- void sendFileOverSocket(char* fName,int chatSocket);
		- open file and send its contents over chatSocket.